# Reformulating Unsupervised Style Transfer as Paraphrase Generation (EMNLP 2020)

This is the official repository accompanying the EMNLP 2020 long paper [Reformulating Unsupervised Style Transfer as Paraphrase Generation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.05700). This repository contains the accompanying dataset and codebase.

## Updates (2021-22)

* Outputs from baseline models ([DLSM](https://arxiv.org/abs/2002.03912); [UNMT](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.00552); [Transforming Delete, Retrieve, Generate](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.09368)) have been added to the Google Drive link. Please see [`style_paraphrase/evaluation/README.md`](style_paraphrase/evaluation/README.md) for a script to run evaluation on baselines.

* Thanks to [David Dale](https://github.com/avidale), our CoLA fluency classifier is now available in [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/cointegrated/roberta-large-cola-krishna2020). They found this classifier had higher correlation with human judgements compared to other CoLA models (details in [issue #36](https://github.com/martiansideofthemoon/style-transfer-paraphrase/issues/36)).

* Thanks to [Filip Cornell](https://github.com/Filco306), STRAP models are now available on [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/filco306) and accepted to [NL-Augmenter](https://github.com/GEM-benchmark/NL-Augmenter/pull/227)!

* We have open-sourced multilingual classifiers for formality evaluation. Please see [`README-multilingual.md`](README-multilingual.md) for more details.

## Demos

The web demo for the system can be found [here](http://arkham.cs.umass.edu:8553). The code and setup for the webpage can be found in [`web-demo/README.md`](web-demo/README.md). We also have a command-line demo for the paraphrase model. For more details, check [`README_terminal_demo.md`](README_terminal_demo.md).

## Outputs from STRAP / baselines

All outputs generated by our model: [`outputs`](outputs). Contact me at kalpesh@cs.umass.edu for outputs from the Formality dataset (both our model and baselines) once you have received the GYAFC dataset. The outputs from baseline models have been added to [`outputs/baselines`](outputs_baselines). Please see [`style_paraphrase/evaluation/README.md`](style_paraphrase/evaluation/README.md) for a script to run evaluation on baselines.

## Setup

The code uses PyTorch 1.4+, HuggingFace's [`transformers`](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers) library for training GPT2 models, and Facebook AI Research's [`fairseq`](https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq) for evaluation using RoBERTa classifiers. To install PyTorch, look for the Python package compatible with your local CUDA setup [here](https://pytorch.org).

```
virtualenv style-venv
source style-venv/bin/activate
pip install torch torchvision
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install --editable .

cd fairseq
pip install --editable .
```

To process custom datasets and run the classifier, you will need to download RoBERTA. Download the RoBERTa checkpoints from [here](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/master/examples/roberta#pre-trained-models). Alternatively, you could follow the commands below. If you want a smaller model, you can also setup a ROBERTA_BASE variable using a similar process.

```
wget https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/fairseq/models/roberta.large.tar.gz
tar -xzvf roberta.large.tar.gz

# Add the following to your .bashrc file, feel free to store the model elsewhere on the hard disk
export ROBERTA_LARGE=$PWD/roberta.large
```

## Datasets

All datasets will be added to this [Google Drive link](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12ImHH2kJKw1Vs3rDUSRytP3DZYcHdsZw?usp=sharing). Download the datasets and place them under `datasets`. The datasets currently available are (with their folder names),

1. ParaNMT-50M filtered down to 75k pairs - `datasets/paranmt_filtered`
2. Shakespeare style transfer - `datasets/shakespeare`
3. Formality transfer - Please follow the instructions [here](https://github.com/raosudha89/GYAFC-corpus). Once you have access to the corpus, you could email me ([kalpesh@cs.umass.edu](mailto:kalpesh@cs.umass.edu)) to get access to the preprocessed version. We will also add scripts to preprocess the raw data.
4. Corpus of Diverse Styles - `datasets/cds`. Samples can be found in [`samples/data_samples`](samples/data_samples). Please cite the [original sources](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2010.05700.pdf#page=24) as well if you plan to use this dataset.

## Training / Pretrained Models

1. To train the paraphrase model, run [`style_paraphrase/examples/run_finetune_paraphrase.sh`](style_paraphrase/examples/run_finetune_paraphrase.sh).

2. To train the inverse paraphrasers for Shakespeare, check the two scripts in [`style_paraphrase/examples/shakespeare`](style_paraphrase/examples/shakespeare).

3. To train the inverse paraphrasers for Formality, check the two scripts in [`style_paraphrase/examples/formality`](style_paraphrase/examples/formality). Note that you will need to email me asking for the preprocessed dataset once you have access to the GYAFC corpus (see instructions in Datasets section).

4. To train models on CDS, please follow step #2 and #5 below in "Custom Datasets".

All the main **pretrained models** have been added to the [Google Drive link](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12ImHH2kJKw1Vs3rDUSRytP3DZYcHdsZw?usp=sharing).

To run a fine-tuning and evaluation script simultaneously with support for hyperparameter tuning, please see the code in `style_paraphrase/schedule.py` and `style_paraphrase/hyperparameters_config.py`. This is customized to SLURM, you might need to mkae minor adjustments for it to work on your cluster. 

## Classifier Training

Classifiers are needed to evaluate style transfer performance. To train the classifiers follow the steps:

1. Install the local fork of `fairseq`, as discussed above in "Setup".

2. Download the RoBERTa checkpoints as discussed above in "Setup".

3. For training classifiers on Shakespeare, CoLA or CDS datasets, download the `shakespeare-bin`, `cola-bin` or `cds-bin` folders from the Drive link [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Y54r47VSXP0Bo1h2cHhTMOLCH-YsP112?usp=sharing) and place them under `datasets`. I can provide similar files for the Formality dataset once you have access to the original corpus.

4. To train the classifiers, see the examples in [`style_paraphrase/style_classify/examples`](style_paraphrase/style_classify/examples). You can also use a grid search (with a Slurm scheduler) by using the code in [`style_paraphrase/style_classify/schedule.py`](style_paraphrase/style_classify/schedule.py). We also have a light-weight Flask interface to plot performance with epochs which works well with the Slurm grid search automation, check [`style_paraphrase/style_classify/webapp/run.sh`](style_paraphrase/style_classify/webapp/run.sh).

5. For training on custom datasets, run the commands under "Custom Datasets" to create `fairseq` binary files for your dataset (Step 1 and 2). Then, you can either modify the example scripts to point to your dataset or you could add an entry to [`style_paraphrase/style_classify/schedule.py`](style_paraphrase/style_classify/schedule.py). You will need to specify the number of classes and the total length of the dataset in the file, which is used to calculate the number of warmup steps.


## Evaluation

Please check [`style_paraphrase/evaluation/README.md`](style_paraphrase/evaluation/README.md) for more details.

## Custom Datasets

Create a folder in `datasets` which will contain `new_dataset` as `datasets/new_dataset`. Paste your plaintext train/dev/test splits into this folder as `train.txt`, `dev.txt`, `test.txt`. Use one instance per line (note that the model truncates sequences longer than 50 subwords). Add `train.label`, `dev.label`, `test.label` files (with same number of lines as `train.txt`, `dev.txt`, `test.txt`). These files will contain the style label of the corresponding instance. See [this folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1a7SS3n9Ds3PEcDH7o3rZnWr-AAkVKYZw?usp=sharing) for examples of label files.

1. To convert a plaintext dataset into it's BPE form run the command,

```
python datasets/dataset2bpe.py --dataset datasets/new_dataset
```

Note that this process is reversible. To convert a BPE file back into its raw text form: `python datasets/bpe2text.py --input <input> --output <output>`.

2. Next, for converting the BPE codes to `fairseq` binaries and building a label dictionary, first make sure you have downloaded RoBERTa and setup the `$ROBERTA_LARGE` global variable in your `.bashrc` (see "Setup" for more details). Then run,

```
datasets/bpe2binary.sh datasets/new_dataset
```

3. To train inverse paraphrasers you will need to paraphrase the dataset. First, download the pretrained model `paraphraser_gpt2_large` from [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/12ImHH2kJKw1Vs3rDUSRytP3DZYcHdsZw?usp=sharing). After downloading the pretrained paraphrase model run the command,

```
python datasets/paraphrase_splits.py --dataset datasets/new_dataset
```

4. Add an entry to the `DATASET_CONFIG` dictionary in [`style_paraphrase/dataset_config.py`](style_paraphrase/dataset_config.py), customizing configuration if needed.

```
"datasets/new_dataset": BASE_CONFIG
```

5. Enter your dataset in the hyperparameters [file](https://github.com/martiansideofthemoon/style-transfer-paraphrase/blob/master/style_paraphrase/hyperparameters_config.py#L23) and run `python style_paraphrase/schedule.py`.

### Custom Paraphrase data

You can preprocess a TSV data of sentence pairs to a compatible format using,

```
python datasets/prepare_paraphrase_data.py \
    --input_file input.tsv \
    --output_folder datasets/custom_paraphrase_data \
    --train_fraction 0.95
```

## Citation

If you find this repository useful, please cite us:

```
@inproceedings{style20,
author={Kalpesh Krishna and John Wieting and Mohit Iyyer},
Booktitle = {Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing},
Year = "2020",
Title={Reformulating Unsupervised Style Transfer as Paraphrase Generation},
}
```
